README.md, before:

# Marketing-Sales
Machine learning, modeling, optimization and other analytics tools for Marketing and Sales using Python.

Work in progress! :-)

## Connect with me
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fermin-coloma/)

## Overview

| Project | Link | Image |
|--------------|------|-------|
| Market basket analysis | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Market-Basket-Analysis/Market%20basket%20analysis.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Market%20basket%20analysis.png" width="388"/> |
| Segmentation (unsupervised)  | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Segmentation/Customer%20segmentation.ipynb)  | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Segmentation-Unsupervised%20learning.png" width="388"/> |
| Pricing elasticity | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/username/project-gamma) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Price%20elasticity.png" width="388"/> |

## Projects

### Market Basket Analysis: 

- Increase sales by customizing product proposals for each customer... and increasing customer satisfaction and loyalty in the meantime.
- Optimize location of items in store, create smarter product promotion campaigns, learn from hidden buying patters from customers

  <img width="1298" height="721" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f10b99b3-0b02-4016-936f-c860d9c0c21d" />

### How to segment market data for unknown data:

- This is also a good way to boost ideas for known data as well.

<img width="1242" height="512" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc5c16a0-9fca-4ef4-a819-ccddfe3c36a8" />

### Pricing-elasticity: 

- Better price decisions, considering effect of changes in demand and price among several SKUs.

<img width="1067" height="455" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f4b01ac-ec8d-433a-91f6-a10bab685024" />

<img width="1052" height="425" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cedc1292-d842-40bd-a0e2-10166302f2ff" />

### No-nonsense Sales Dashboard with Power BI:

- Tool for better management of sales, very simple and yet very powerful.

<img width="1140" height="645" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/20645400-2f0d-4f09-b515-fd98f14b95e1" />

### Maximizing profit in a dairy factory.

Showing data for ideas related to Product Management:

* Which products deliver more profit?
* Is manpower a bottleneck for further profit generation?
* Which ingredients are a bottleneck?
* How would profit look like removing ingredient bottlenecks?

This solution has used free software and libraries, and can also be used with licensed software, like Gurobi.

<img width="1178" height="494" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87c24f21-d0e9-438a-b413-d3fe7793f834" />

### Forecasting using statistical models: 

- "Predict the future" to prepare yourself now: demand, production availability, new product launch, competitor's activities, marketing campaigns...
- Give it a try to statistical models:
  - Easy to model
  - Fast to run
  - Good explainability
  - Actually useful for many problems
    
 
  <img width="1055" height="706" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a809fbb6-9e35-4836-b0c8-62ca5e0a3eec" />

Commit message:

Add project links and images to README

README.md, after:

# Marketing-Sales
Machine learning, modeling, optimization and other analytics tools for Marketing and Sales using Python.

Work in progress! :-)

## Connect with me
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fermin-coloma/)

## Overview

| Project | Link | Image |
|--------------|------|-------|
| Conjoint analysis (advanced customer survey) | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Conjoint-Analysis/choice-based%20conjoint%20analysis-github.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Conjoint%20analysis.png" width="388"/> |
| Dashboard for Sales with Power BI | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/tree/Power-BI-Sales-Dashboard) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Sales%20Dashboard_Power%20BI.png" width="388"/> |
| Forecast with statistical models | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Forecast---Statistical-models/forecasting_statistical_models.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Forecast_statistical%20models.png" width="388"/> |
| Market basket analysis (product recommendation) | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Market-Basket-Analysis/Market%20basket%20analysis.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Market%20basket%20analysis.png" width="388"/> |
| Maximizing profit (product portfolio management) | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Optimization-for-Sales-%26-Product-Management/Operation%20optimization_factory.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Profit%20Optimization_Product%20Portfolio.png" width="388"/> |
| Minimizing costs (S&OP plant allocation) | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Optimizing_operational_costs/Operation%20optimization_nonlinear%20economic%20dispatch.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Operation%20optimization.png" width="388"/> |
| Pricing (demand elasticity) | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Elasticity/Pricing-elasticity.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Price%20elasticity.png" width="388"/> |
| Segmentation (unsupervised machine learning) | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Segmentation/Customer%20segmentation.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Segmentation-Unsupervised%20learning.png" width="388"/> 

| Project | Link | Image |
|--------------|------|-------|
| Market basket analysis | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Market-Basket-Analysis/Market%20basket%20analysis.ipynb) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Market%20basket%20analysis.png" width="388"/> |
| Segmentation (unsupervised)  | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/Segmentation/Customer%20segmentation.ipynb)  | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Segmentation-Unsupervised%20learning.png" width="388"/> |
| Pricing elasticity | [Click to know more...](https://github.com/username/project-gamma) | <img src="https://github.com/fc2gmxnet/Marketing-Sales/blob/main/images/Price%20elasticity.png" width="388"/> |

## Projects

### Market Basket Analysis: 

- Increase sales by customizing product proposals for each customer... and increasing customer satisfaction and loyalty in the meantime.
- Optimize location of items in store, create smarter product promotion campaigns, learn from hidden buying patters from customers

  <img width="1298" height="721" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f10b99b3-0b02-4016-936f-c860d9c0c21d" />

### How to segment market data for unknown data:

- This is also a good way to boost ideas for known data as well.

<img width="1242" height="512" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc5c16a0-9fca-4ef4-a819-ccddfe3c36a8" />

### Pricing-elasticity: 

- Better price decisions, considering effect of changes in demand and price among several SKUs.

<img width="1067" height="455" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f4b01ac-ec8d-433a-91f6-a10bab685024" />

<img width="1052" height="425" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cedc1292-d842-40bd-a0e2-10166302f2ff" />

### No-nonsense Sales Dashboard with Power BI:

- Tool for better management of sales, very simple and yet very powerful.

<img width="1140" height="645" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/20645400-2f0d-4f09-b515-fd98f14b95e1" />

### Maximizing profit in a dairy factory.

Showing data for ideas related to Product Management:

* Which products deliver more profit?
* Is manpower a bottleneck for further profit generation?
* Which ingredients are a bottleneck?
* How would profit look like removing ingredient bottlenecks?

This solution has used free software and libraries, and can also be used with licensed software, like Gurobi.

<img width="1178" height="494" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87c24f21-d0e9-438a-b413-d3fe7793f834" />

### Forecasting using statistical models: 

- "Predict the future" to prepare yourself now: demand, production availability, new product launch, competitor's activities, marketing campaigns...
- Give it a try to statistical models:
  - Easy to model
  - Fast to run
  - Good explainability
  - Actually useful for many problems
    
 
  <img width="1055" height="706" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a809fbb6-9e35-4836-b0c8-62ca5e0a3eec" />
